Extracting knowledge from user-generated content (UGC) in social media platforms is a very hot research topic in the area of machine learning, nonetheless, the main challenge resides in the fact that UGC carries inference, abstraction and subjectivity alongside objectivity. With the aim of recognising the importance of subjectivity as an influential aspect for providing humanoid results from a machine learning algorithm, this study proposes a novel approach to improve Instagram hashtag recommendation by considering sentiment that can be expressed for images. Two main points are studied in this thesis; evaluating the relativity of Instagram image to hashtag for both objective and subjective features of an image and the effect of sentiment on said relativity. This work examines three machine learning methods for hashtag recommendation: AWS service, developed algorithms with and without sentiment considerations. The models are tested on a collected dataset of de-identified Instagram posts in location London gathered from public profiles. The results show that considering sentiment significantly improves Instagram hashtag recommendation.


Hashtag-based image descriptions are a popular approach for labeling images on social media platforms. On social media platforms, content can be traced using hashtags, therefore making hashtags like a key-pair value in a dictionary. Hashtags are generated by users and different users might come up with different tags for similar posts, due to their different preference and/or community effect. Therefore, it is highly desirable to characterize the users’ tagging habits. Machine learning is a method of finding patterns in the data, and using it, we tend to find and predict relevant hashtags for images and texts in order to have better engagement on social media platforms.Two main points are studied in this thesis; evaluating the relativity of Instagram image to hashtag for both objective and subjective features of an image and the effect of sentiment on said relativity. But, however, manual annotations for images, additionally for figuring out training sets for the machine learning algorithms, wishes introduced effort, work and might also incorporate human judgmental blunders or subjectivity. Hence, alternate methods to routinely generate training sets, like pairs of pictures and also tags are grasped. Choosing or wondering about a realistic hashtag for a photograph is an unwielded procedure. Machine learning helps in making this method easier. 

In this paper we are exploring the possible better solutions through various approaches and expect this study to accelerate the advancement of hashtag recommendation.

In this paper, we have labored on constructing our personal dataset of images 
that can be used to predict appropriate hashtags for images. The 
dataset carries pictures under various categories that have been 
trained and tested in order to be classified. This helps us become 
aware of and segregate photos and to predict their splendid 
hashtags.